Core Java Questions -
    What does OOPS in Java mean?
    What do you mean by platform independence of Java?
    What is JVM and is it platform independent?
    What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
    What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
    Which class is the superclass of all classes?
    Why Java doesn’t support multiple inheritance?
    Why Java is not pure Object Oriented language?
    What is difference between path and classpath variables?
    What is the importance of main method in Java?
    What is overloading and overriding in java?
    Can we overload main method?
    Can we have multiple public classes in a java source file?
    What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
    What are access modifiers?
    What is finally and finalize in java?
    Can we declare a class as static?
    What is static import?
    What is try-with-resources in java?
    What is multi-catch block in java?
    What is static block?
    What is the difference between abstract class and interface?
    Can an interface implement or extend another interface?
    What is Marker interface?
    What are Wrapper classes?
    What is Java Annotations?
    What is Java Reflection API? 
    What is composition in java?
    What is the benefit of Composition over Inheritance?
    How to sort a collection of custom Objects in Java?
    What is inner class in java?
    What is anonymous inner class?
    What is Classloader in Java?
    What are different types of classloaders?
    What is ternary operator in java?
    Can we have try without catch block?
    What is Garbage Collection?
    What is Serialization and Deserialization?
    How to run a JAR file through command prompt?
    What is the use of System class?
    What is instanceof keyword?
    Can we use String with switch case?
    Java is Pass by Value or Pass by Reference?
    What is difference between Heap and Stack Memory?
    Java Compiler is stored in JDK, JRE or JVM?
    What will be the output of following programs?

Java 8 -
What is Lambda Expression?
What are the three parts of a Lambda Expression? What is the type of Lambda Expression?
What is a Functional Interface? What is SAM Interface?
Is is possible to define our own Functional Interface? What is @FunctionalInterface? What are the rules to define a Functional Interface?
Is @FunctionalInterface annotation mandatory to define a Functional Interface? What is the use of @FunctionalInterface annotation? Why do we need Functional Interfaces in Java?
When do we go for Java 8 Stream API? Why do we need to use Java 8 Stream API in our projects?
Explain Differences between Collection API and Stream API?
What is Spliterator in Java SE 8?Differences between Iterator and Spliterator in Java SE 8?
What is Optional in Java 8? What is the use of Optional?Advantages of Java 8 Optional?
What is Type Inference? Is Type Inference available in older versions like Java 7 and Before 7 or it is available only in Java SE 8?


Java Collections -

What are the basic interfaces of Java Collections Framework?
Why Collection doesn’t extend Cloneable and Serializable interfaces?
Why Map interface doesn’t extend Collection interface?
What is an Iterator?
What is the difference between Enumeration and Iterator interface?
Why there is not a method like Iterator.add() to add elements to the collection?
Why Iterator don’t have a method to get next element directly without moving the cursor?
How to avoid ConcurrentModificationException while iterating a collection?
Why there are no concrete implementations of Iterator interface?
What is UnsupportedOperationException?
What is the importance of hashCode() and equals() methods?
Can we use any class as Map key?
What are different Collection views provided by Map interface?
What is difference between HashMap and Hashtable?
How to decide between HashMap and TreeMap?
What is difference between ArrayList and LinkedList?
Which collection classes provide random access of its elements?
Which collection classes are thread-safe?
What are concurrent Collection Classes?
What is Comparable and Comparator interface?
While passing a Collection as argument to a function, how can we make sure the function will not be able to modify it?


Java Multi-Threading- ( recently added)
How can we create a Thread in Java?
What are different states in lifecycle of Thread?
Can we call run() method of a Thread class?
How can we pause the execution of a Thread for specific time?
What is context-switching in multi-threading?
How can we make sure main() is the last thread to finish in Java Program?
How does thread communicate with each other?
Why thread communication methods wait(), notify() and notifyAll() are in Object class?
Why wait(), notify() and notifyAll() methods have to be called from synchronized method or block?
What is Thread Group? Why it’s advised not to use it?
What is Java Thread Dump, How can we get Java Thread dump of a Program?
What is Deadlock? How to analyze and avoid deadlock situation?


Java Exception handling-

Explain Java Exception Hierarchy?
What are important methods of Java Exception Class?
What is difference between Checked and Unchecked Exception in Java?
What is difference between throw and throws keyword in Java?
How to write custom exception in Java?
What is OutOfMemoryError in Java?
What happens when exception is thrown by main method?
Can we have an empty catch block?
Provide some Java Exception Handling Best Practices?


