What is springboot?
    1) Spring boot is an open-source Java-based framework. Using Spring Boot we can develop enterprise-level application which runs on JVM. With minimal configuration. 
    2) We can develop microservice faster and easier using Spring Boot, with key features. 
        Autoconfiguration--> Spring boot configures automatically configures spring application based on the jar dependencies that we have added
        Spring-Boot Starter-->Opinionated approach You can need the project during the initialization phase, we can use multiple dependencies called Spring starters.
        Ability to create standalone applications, Spring boot helps developers create an application that runs specifically. You can create a standalone application that runs on its own without relying on external web servers.     

Why do we need Spring Boot?
1) Its an open-source micro framework. 2) Reduces development time and increases the overall productivity of the development team. 3) Helps you autoconfigure all components for a production-grade Spring application.
4) Avoids writing lots of boilerplate code, annotations, and XML configuration. 5) Comes with embedded HTTP servers like Tomcat or Jetty to test web applications.

Spring Boot Components
What is Spring Boot Starter? Name a few. What starter applications have you worked with?
-------------------------------
spring Boot provides several starters that allow us to add jars in the classpath. Spring Boot built-in starters make development easier and rapid. For example, if we want to use Spring and JPA for database access, we need to include the spring-boot-starter-data-jpa dependency in our pom. ...

What is Spring Boot AutoConfigurator?
------------------------------------
Spring Boot auto-configuration attempts to automatically configure your Spring application based on the jar dependencies that you have added. You need to opt-in to auto-configuration by adding the @EnableAutoConfiguration or @SpringBootApplication annotations to one of your @Configuration classes

How to Disable a Specific Auto-Configuration?
------------------------------------------------
@EnableAutoConfiguration(exclude={DataSourceAutoConfiguration.class})

What is Spring Boot Actuator?
How to Register a Custom Auto-Configuration?
How to Tell an Auto-Configuration to Ignore Initialization When a Bean Exists?
What Are Possible Sources of External Configuration?
What is Spring Boot Devtools Used For?

Explain what is Unit Test Case?
Explain how you can write a simple JUnit test case?
Mention what are parameterized tests?
How do setup unit test suite?


    @Component is a generic stereotype for any Spring-managed component
    @Service annotates classes at the service layer
    @Repository annotates classes at the persistence layer, which will act as a database repository



